+++
title = '10.0.0 27'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

The Old3DS+New3DS 10.0.0-27 system update was released on September 8,
2015. This Old3DS update was released for the following regions: USA,
EUR, JPN, CHN, KOR, and TWN. This New3DS update was released for the
following regions: USA, EUR, JPN, CHN, and KOR.

Security flaws fixed: yes, see the ARM11-kernel section
[here](3DS_System_Flaws "wikilink").

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/667/p/430/c/267)
USA change-log:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience

## System Titles

\<fill this in (manually) later\>

### [NATIVE_FIRM](FIRM "wikilink")

Minus configmem init, exactly 4 functions were updated in the
ARM11-kernel(at least one was for fixing a security issue). See
[here](3DS_System_Flaws "wikilink") for details on that.

Only the following FIRM ARM11 modules were updated with the codebin:

- FS module was updated.
- Loader module was updated, the only change was that the version value
  passed to
  [FS:InitializeWithSdkVersion](FS:InitializeWithSdkVersion "wikilink")
  was changed from 0x0b0201c8 to 0x0b0400c8.

### Process9

One of the changes was that main() was updated. Three functions(two
initialization functions + launch_firm()) which were previously called
directly are now called via a wrapper function with a funcptr parameter.
As a result, the main() prologue/epilog changed. This is for temporarily
relocating the stack elsewhere(same relocated-stack-addr for all
func-calls), just for calling the funcptr(all registers except for
r0..r3 are saved/restored before/after calling the funcptr).

Some FS-related code seems to have been changed.

There's also some new UTF-16 strings in the .(ro)data, but there's no(?)
known code which actually uses these.

#### New3DS-only

No actual code/data was changed in the arm9loader.

During loading, kernel9 copies the entire Process9 NCCH to a relocated
base-addr, which is: endaddr - ncchsize. On Old3DS, endaddr is
0x080fffe0. On New3DS, endaddr was 0x080fffe0 prior to v10.0-FIRM, now
it's 0x0817ffe0.

The Process9 .bss(which contains the proc9 heaps too) is larger now:
previously the .bss ended at address 0x080ff080, now it ends at
0x08117040.

Therefore, \*all\* of the extended New3DS-only arm9mem gets overwritten
during FIRM boot with v10.0.

There were no New3DS-only Process9 code changes.

## See Also

System update report(s):

- [1](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=09-08-15_09-34-44&sys=ctr)
- [2](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=09-08-15_09-34-53&sys=ktr)

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")
