+++
title = '10.2.0 28'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

The Old3DS+New3DS 10.2.0-28 system update was released on October 19,
2015. This Old3DS update was released for the following regions: USA,
EUR, JPN, CHN, KOR, and TWN. This New3DS update was released for the
following regions: USA, EUR, JPN, and KOR.

Security flaws fixed: see below.

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/667/p/430/c/267)
USA change-log:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience

## System Titles

The following titles were updated: [Home Menu](Home_Menu "wikilink"),
[CVer](CVer "wikilink"), Old3DS+New3DS NATIVE_FIRM, Old3DS+New3DS
[Internet Browser](Internet_Browser "wikilink"), and
[NVer](NVer "wikilink").

### NATIVE_FIRM

The only FIRM sysmodule that was really updated is the following, minus
a single word in the FS-module codebin.

- pm was updated. [PMApp:LaunchTitle](PMApp:LaunchTitle "wikilink") now
  executes svcBreak() when trying to launch safe-mode sysmodule/applet
  titles.

For Old3DS, the FIRM arm9-section wasn't changed at all: same FIRM
section hash from the previous version. Nothing was really changed in
the New3DS arm9-section either.

No code in the ARM11-kernel was changed(the binary is \*exactly\* the
same minus two words involved with configmem version fields init).

### Home Menu

Only the codebin was changed. The size of .text only increased by
0x18-bytes.

Only one function was updated: the theme-loading function. The changes
in this code block the latest version of [menuhax](menuhax "wikilink")
at the time of sysupdate release. See
[here](3DS_Userland_Flaws "wikilink") for details.

### Internet Browser

See [here](Internet_Browser "wikilink") for details, vuln fixing
included.

## See Also

System update report(s):

- [1](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=10-19-15_08-05-19&sys=ctr)
- [2](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=10-19-15_08-05-28&sys=ktr)

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")
