+++
title = '10.4.0 29'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

The Old3DS+New3DS 10.4.0-29 system update was released on January 18,
2016. This Old3DS update was released for the following regions: USA,
EUR, JPN, CHN, KOR, and TWN. This New3DS update was released for the
following regions: USA, EUR, JPN, CHN, and KOR.

Security flaws fixed: yes, see below.

Old3DS/New3DS browserhax and menuhax were not fixed(the Old3DS browser
wasn't even updated).

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/667/p/430/c/267)
USA change-log:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience

## System Titles

### NATIVE_FIRM

[memchunkhax2](3DS_System_Flaws#Kernel11 "wikilink") was partially fixed
by reading the [MemoryBlockHeader](MemoryBlockHeader "wikilink") next
pointer before it is mapped to userland, but it can still be exploited
using GPU. Only *one* function was changed in arm11kernel.

The only updated FIRM sysmodules were fs and loader, for fs only a
version-field in .code was updated used with a debug NOP-instruction.

#### loader

The loader process .text was previously 0x331C-bytes, it's now
0x36F0-bytes.

All code changes:

- Some code using svcGetSystemTick was added. This is used by
  L_14002670.
- L_140022b8(L_14002234 in previous loader version): This is the
  function which calls L_140025f0. Code was added between the code which
  loads the memregion value from exheader, and the func call for mapping
  it(L_140025f0). This new code determines what to pass for the
  L_140025f0 insp4 flag. By default the value passed for that flag is 0.
  - When the process memregion is APPLICATION, the programID is for a
    CTR title, and the uniqueid matches the eShop
    system-application(*all* regions including CHN), the flag is set to
    1.
  - When the process memregion is SYSTEM, the flag is set to 1 when the
    reslimit_category is not LIB_APPLET.
- L_140025f0(L_140024e4 in previous loader version) now calls another
  function(L_14002670) instead of svcControlMemory directly, for mapping
  the codebin memory. The insp4 flag from the L_140025f0 input is passed
  to L_14002670 as sp0.
- L_14002670: New function used for mapping the codebin. When the insp0
  flag is zero, this does the normal memory-mapping, otherwise a special
  memory-mapping codepath is used. This codepath still uses the same
  memregion specified in the exheader.

The special memory-mapping codepath is basically a method of mapping the
codebin with svcControlMemory using up to 8 chunks, each with a random
size. Each chunk is done in a random order. Since the allocation order
is random, this also means the order of each .text chunk in physmem is
random too. When the total size of the randomized page-count is less
than the required amount, an 8th chunk is used to pad the total size to
the exact required size. It appears the total combined size used with
svcControlMemory is *always* exactly the same as what's required for the
codebin.

Regarding chunk size calculation:

- s32 maxval = (codebin_totalrequiredpages - pagepos) \>\> 4;
- The above maxval field is set to 15 if it's \>=15.
- pagecount = L_14001730(maxval);
- pagecount = (pagecount+1) \<\< 4;
- chunksize = pagecount \<\< 12;

This is an attempt at randomizing the layout of physmem .text, due to
gspwn.

#### ARM9

There were no New3DS-only changes in Process9, the arm9loader wasn't
changed either.

There were exactly 4 updated functions in Process9, all of these involve
NTRCARD:

- The first two functions had code added which clears a certain state
  field to 0 around the beginning of the function.
- The third function now passes value 0x1000 as inr2 when calling the
  fourth function.
- The fourth and last function, this is the function used for reading
  the card header. A buffer-overflow check was added in the NTRCARD
  reading loop: "if(out_bufpos \>=
  inr2)<skip over copying the word to output>".

### NS

NS added [a new APT command](APT:IsTitleAllowed "wikilink") used by Home
Menu which now checks whether IronFall is on the latest version before
launching; if it is on an exploitable version and the function is called
to launch IronFall the system will refuse to launch the title(it's
unknown what exactly caused a "reboot" here). This check is done again
before launching the title, throwing an error if it fails.

All [NS](NS "wikilink") code changes:

- L_103e6c(prev ver at L_103e6c): APT cmd-handler, this was updated for
  the command mentioned above.
- L_1086f4: New function, this is called by the above cmd-handler. This
  basically just calls L_10b1cc.
- L_10b1cc: New function, this is the actual
  [<APT:IsTitleAllowed>](APT:IsTitleAllowed "wikilink") implementation.
  Returns 0 for blocked, 1 for allowed.
  - The beginning of this function is the same as L_10d598, without the
    u16 check right away.
  - This initializes amu, then uses
    [AM:GetTitleInfo](AM:GetTitleInfo "wikilink") with the input
    programID(mediatype is hard-coded to SD). If the latter returns an
    error, this will exit with retval0.
  - If u16 entry+4 is \< (titleversion\>\>10), this then exits with
    retval1.
  - Then the AM:GetTitleInfo + versioncheck code is repeated using the
    update-data title.
  - This lastly exits, with retval1 if the update-data titlever is newer
    than the entry one.
- L_10d598: New function, only called by L_10df40. This is the
  internal-NS-only version of the
  [<APT:IsTitleAllowed>](APT:IsTitleAllowed "wikilink") code. Returns 0
  for blocked, 1 for allowed.
  - This immediately returns 1 when the mediatype isn't SD, or when the
    title isn't a CTR title.
  - Then it loads the uniqueid from the input struct, for determining
    which entry to use from a table in .rodata. The uniqueid is compared
    with hard-coded constants in the function code itself, even though
    the table contains the uniqueids too. The code looks like:
    "if(uniqueid == constant0) {entryptr = addr0} else if ...". When no
    entry is found, this immediately returns 1.
  - Lastly, if input_version_value is \<= u16 entry+4, this returns 0,
    otherwise 1 is returned.
- L_10df40(prev ver at L_10ddd4): This appears to be the main function
  used by NS for launching titles in general(minus
  [NSS:LaunchTitle](NSS:LaunchTitle "wikilink") used by the \*hax
  payloads). Code was added for calling L_10d598() in two locations. The
  version value passed to L_10d598 here is the title NCCH
  remaster-version. When that function returns <blocked>, this code
  returns error 0xC8A0CC04.

See [here](APT:IsTitleAllowed "wikilink") regarding the contents of that
table.

### Home Menu

The code changes for Home Menu appear to be just title/AM related / GUI.

Code was implemented for using
[<APT:IsTitleAllowed>](APT:IsTitleAllowed "wikilink") mentioned above.
This is only done after VersionList handling(for example when one tries
to launch the app without updating), prior to doing the actual
application launch. When that returns 0, Home Menu will display a
message using the following text from new message-strings:

```
You need to update this 
software before you can
launch it.
```

### SpotPass sysmodule

Only one function was changed in the
[BOSS](BOSS_Services "wikilink")/SpotPass sysmodule, the changes in this
function seem to be minor.

### Internet Browser

Only the New3DS Internet Browser was updated, see
[here](Internet_Browser "wikilink") for that.

### eShop system-application

Some ratings-related strings were added to the main
codebin("ratPEGI_U_02" and "detailPEGI_D_01").

The message files were updated:

```
diff --git a/v19465/tiger.msbt.lz.decom.wstrs b/v20482/tiger.msbt.lz.decom.wstrs
index 2a3a24e..55358d0 100644
--- a/v19465/tiger.msbt.lz.decom.wstrs
+++ b/v20482/tiger.msbt.lz.decom.wstrs
@@ -258,6 +258,7 @@ Charts
 Search Results: 
 Price: TBD
 Offers in-game purchases
+Video 
 This software is currently unavailable.
 Page 
 Go to Page
```

### mint

Only the main codebin was updated, nothing changed with strings in that
codebin(besides a string containing a version which gets updated for
each mint update).

### 0004009B00012302

The USA 0004009B00012302 CFA(and the equivalent titleIDs for the other
regions) was updated, the following message was added to
20000_msbt_LZ.bin:

```
An error has occurred.
Please check if there is corrupted data
in Data Management 
 Nintendo 3DS
in the System Settings.
If the problem persists, please
make a note of the error code
and visit support.nintendo.com.
```

## See Also

System update report(s):

- [1](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=01-18-16_07-00-49&sys=ctr)
- [2](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=01-18-16_07-00-58&sys=ktr)

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")
