+++
title = '10.5.0 30'
+++

The Old3DS+New3DS 10.5.0-30 system update was released on January 25,
2016. This Old3DS update was released for the following regions: USA,
EUR, JPN, CHN, KOR, and TWN. This New3DS update was released for the
following regions: USA, EUR, JPN, CHN, and KOR.

Security flaws fixed: \<fill this in manually later, see the
updatedetails page from the ninupdates-report page(s) once available for
now\>.

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/667/p/430/c/267)
USA change-log:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience

## System Titles

Only the following titles were updated: [CVer](CVer "wikilink"),
[NVer](NVer "wikilink"), "Non-Nintendo TLS Root-CA Certificates CFA",
0004001B00010802, and friends sysmodule.

### friends sysmodule

A few u32s in .text were updated which are version-related. Minus SDK
version-values used with [ErrDisp](ErrDisp "wikilink"), this just
changed the fpdver value sent for HTTPS request(s) from 3 to 4(this is
also used with the user-agent).

### 0004001B00010802

The *only* change here(even including the NCCH header) was that the
contents of RomFS:/dummy.txt was changed from 1-byte '1' to '2'.

### Certs CFA

This just updated the RomFS:/CACERT_PUBLIC_CA_6.der file. This replaced
the "VeriSign" cert with "CyberTrust ..."

## See Also

System update report(s):

- [1](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=01-25-16_07-00-49&sys=ctr)
- [2](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=01-25-16_07-00-58&sys=ktr)

## Online multiplayer sysupdate message

Following the server maintenance on February 1, 2016, the
[nasc](https://nasc.nintendowifi.net/ac) URL now returns an error
indicating a sysupdate is required when a pre-v10.5 3DS tries to send a
request with that URL. The server now checks that the fpdver value sent
in the request is the newer one described in the above friends-module
section.

Hence, this blocks "everything" requiring friends-login including
online-multiplayer where the 3DS has friends-module \<v10.5 installed.
This somehow doesn't affect the YouTube application even though it does
a friends-login.
