+++
title = '10.6.0 31'
+++

The Old3DS+New3DS 10.6.0-31 system update was released on February 22,
2016. This Old3DS update was released for the following regions: USA,
EUR, JPN, CHN, KOR, and TWN. This New3DS update was released for the
following regions: USA, EUR, JPN, CHN, and KOR.

Security flaws fixed: yes, see below.

Titles which uses [friend](Friend_Services "wikilink")-services(online
multiplayer included) are not affected by this, since the
friend-sysmodule wasn't updated. As long as the installed friend-module
is for [10.5.0-30](10.5.0-30 "wikilink") no
[sysupdate-required](10.5.0-30 "wikilink") message will be displayed
with using friend-service functionality.

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/667/p/430/c/267)
USA change-log:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience

[Official](http://www.ique.com/3ds/support/update/3dsxlupdate.html)
China change-log:

- 改善了运行性能和安全保护
  - 为了能让用户更舒适地使用我公司的产品，改善了系统的运行性能和安全保护。

[Official](https://www.nintendo.co.jp/support/3ds/system_update/index.html)
Japan change-log:

- システムの安定性や利便性の向上
  - より快適にお楽しみいただけるよう、システムの安定性や利便性を向上させました。

## System Titles

\<fill this in (manually) later\>

### Home Menu

Only one function was updated, the function which loads theme body-data
with theme-shuffling enabled. This now does: if(loadedsize \>
input_max_size)fail. Hence, the latest exploit used by
[menuhax](menuhax "wikilink") at the time of this sysupdate release is
now fixed.

RomFS was not changed at all.

### Internet Browser

Old and New 3DS Internet Browser were updated. Both
browserhax_fright_tx3g(New3DS) and spider28hax(Old3DS) were fixed.

As of "Wed, 24 Feb 16 20:00:01 -0500", updating to this browser version
is now [required](Internet_Browser "wikilink") since the server
browser-version-check pages for Old3DS were updated. This does not
affect New3DS currently.

### Socket sysmodule

Minus changes from an older CTRSDK version(CTRSDK version seems to be
the latest now), only one actual SOC-specific function(L_11154c) was
updated. The previous version did: \<write u8 0x0 to ptr and increase
ptr by 1\>. The current version removed this so that L_11f9f0() is
called with ptr, without writing data to ptr+0/changing ptr.

### IR sysmodule

Exactly two functions were changed. Originally the two functions for
reading I2C-IR registers TXLVL and RXLVL just used i2c_ReadRegister8
then returned the output u8. Now each function reads the register, then
returns the output value if it's \<=0x40. Otherwise, the register is
read again. If the output value is \<=0x40, the output value is
returned, otherwise 0x0 is returned.

With the original IR hardware the value returned by these registers are
always 0x0..0x40 according to the datasheet.

This fixed the vuln described [here](3DS_System_Flaws "wikilink").

### JPN-only titles

Multiple titles for JPN-only were updated. For System Settings and
"Nintendo 3DS Camera", only the manual content was updated(the main
contentid in the TMD wasn't changed at all). Other titles were updated
for JPN-only too, presumably with the same manual-only change.

### CHN-only titles

The amiibo Settings system-applet was added for old 3DS, yet is
identical to the Taiwan version.

## See Also

System update report(s):

- [1](https://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=02-22-16_07-00-49&sys=ctr)
- [2](https://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=02-22-16_07-00-58&sys=ktr)