+++
title = '10.7.0 32'
+++

The Old3DS+New3DS 10.7.0-32 system update was released on March 14,
2016. This Old3DS update was released for the following regions: USA,
EUR, JPN, CHN, KOR, and TWN. This New3DS update was released for the
following regions: USA, EUR, JPN, CHN, and KOR.

Security flaws fixed: only Internet Browser, see below.

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/667/p/430/c/267)
USA change-log:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience

## System Titles

\<fill this in (manually) later\>

### [Friends-sysmodule](Friend_Services "wikilink")

Exactly the same changes as [before](10.5.0-30 "wikilink"), fpdver was
changed from 4 to 5.

This new fpdver is now checked server-side as of April 2, 2016(when this
was actually updated is unknown).

### Old3DS [NFC-sysmodule](NFC_Services "wikilink")

Only the Old3DS NFC-sysmodule was updated, not New3DS. The size of .text
decreased by 0x8-bytes.

Only one function was updated. Instead of doing "u64_someval0 +=
u64_someval1 + u64_someval1 + u64_someval1", this now uses a loop to do
that addition 5 times.

### mint

No string-related changes, minus the usual version one.

### eShop application

The only string-related changes in the main codebin appear to be related
to the updated message files mentioned below.

The following files in RomFS were updated(USA title diff):

`/cad/Common.arc.lz`
`/cad/CommonWin.arc.lz`
`/cad/Entrance.arc.lz`
`/cad/Register.arc.lz`
`/cad/TitleInfo.arc.lz`
`/message/america/US_English/RI.mstl.lz`
`/message/america/US_English/tiger.msbt.lz`
`/message/america/US_French/RI.mstl.lz`
`/message/america/US_French/tiger.msbt.lz`
`/message/america/US_Portuguese/RI.mstl.lz`
`/message/america/US_Portuguese/tiger.msbt.lz`
`/message/america/US_Spanish/RI.mstl.lz`
`/message/america/US_Spanish/tiger.msbt.lz`

`git diff v20482/tiger.msbt.lz.decom.wstrs v21506/US_English_tiger.msbt.lz.decom_wstrs`
`diff --git a/v20482/tiger.msbt.lz.decom.wstrs b/v21506/US_English_tiger.msbt.lz.decom_wstrs`
`index 55358d0..3c3938f 100644`
`--- a/v20482/tiger.msbt.lz.decom.wstrs`
`+++ b/v21506/US_English_tiger.msbt.lz.decom_wstrs`
`@@ -357,10 +357,10 @@ Please read before purchasing`
` this software license.`
` Next`
` Back`
`-Please check the ESRB rating`
`-information on the upper screen.`
`+Please check the rating information`
`+on the upper screen.`
` Title Information`
`-ESRB Rating`
`+Rating Information`
` Change of Address`
` Your address information is out of date.`
` You must enter your current address in`
`@@ -421,6 +421,12 @@ Please enter the coupon code`
` correctly. Do not use any special`
` characters or symbols.`
` K(incl. tax)`
`+A Just for You offer is available.`
`+Would you like to redeem it?`
`+Redeem offer`
`+Purchase without redeeming offer`
`+K(incl. tax) `
`+K(incl. tax) `
` Downloadable-Content Information`
` In order to view information about`
` downloadable content, Nintendo`
`@@ -461,7 +467,7 @@ Genre`
` Languages`
` Important Information`
` Compatible Features/Accessories`
`-ESRB Rating`
`+Rating Information`
` Related Keywords`
` Repair`
` Repair Software`

### Internet Browser

The Old3DS/New3DS Internet Browser was updated for fixing the
browser-version-check [bypass](3DS_Userland_Flaws "wikilink"), see
[here](Internet_Browser "wikilink") for details.

## See Also

System update report(s):

- [1](https://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=03-14-16_08-00-49&sys=ctr)
- [2](https://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=03-14-16_08-00-58&sys=ktr)