+++
title = '11.14.0 46'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

The Old3DS+New3DS 11.14.0-46 system update was released for all regions
on November 17, 2020 (UTC). This Old3DS update was released for the
following regions: USA, EUR, JPN, CHN, KOR, and TWN. This New3DS update
was released for the following regions: USA, EUR, JPN, CHN, KOR, and
TWN.

Security flaws fixed: yes.

## Change-log

[Official](https://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/231/~/system-menu-update-history)
USA change-log:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience.

## System Titles

### NATIVE_FIRM

#### Kernel11

- svcBindInterrupt and svcUnbindInterrupt will now only accept to handle
  Arm11 interrupt 15 (FIQ helper) if its running on development
  hardware, otherwise 0xD8E007EE is returned:
  - this is because the affected code path in svcUnbindInterrupt is
    vulnerable to a double-free vulnerability; this change makes it
    impossible to trigger on consumer hardware
- When mapping the firmlaunch parameter to the user-specified VA,
  svcKernelSetState now checks that the provided VA is within the
  0x10000000..0x14000000 range (an attacker could previously pass VA=0)
- The compiler seems to have been upgraded (or the optimization
  parameters changed)

#### KIPs

No changes.

#### Process9

The anti-downgrade list has been updated accordingly. No other changes.

#### Kernel9

Kernel9 has been updated, presumably it's just a rebuild with the latest
sources and toolchain.

### [Friends-sysmodule](Friend_Services "wikilink")

- Reported fpdver upgraded to 0xF.

### [SSL-sysmodule](SSL_Services "wikilink")

SSLoth was [fixed](3DS_System_Flaws#Standalone_Sysmodules "wikilink").

Unknown whether there's other changes.

### [Internet Browser](Internet_Browser "wikilink")

- Fix for both exploits used in zoogie's browserhax 2020.
- {...}

### Hotspot list

- "nintendo\[1-5\]", "NCL-NZSERVICE\[2-5\]", and "nzae200818" removed
- All remaining SSIDs except "NintendoSpotPass\[1-2\]" are not Nintendo
  Zones anymore.

## See Also

System update report(s):

- [1](https://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=2020-11-17_00-00-33&sys=ctr)
- [2](https://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=2020-11-17_00-00-38&sys=ktr)

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")