+++
title = '11.1.0 34'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

The Old3DS+New3DS 11.1.0-34 system update was released on September 13,
2016. This Old3DS update was released for the following regions: USA,
EUR, JPN, CHN, KOR, and TWN. This New3DS update was released for the
following regions: USA, EUR, JPN, CHN, KOR, and TWN.

Security flaws fixed: yes.

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/667/p/430/c/267)
USA change-log:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience

## System Titles

The updated titles were Home Menu, Internet Browser, NGWord bad word
list CFA, Nintendo Zone hotspot list CFA, NVer, CVer, DSP, friends, NS
and NATIVE_FIRM. In JPN and KOR, the error string list CFA was
additionally updated.

### NATIVE_FIRM

#### ARM9

No changes to Old3DS/New3DS code at all(plaintext FIRM ARM9 binary /
arm9loader).

Only differences are in the minversion list, which updated the minimum
versions for Home Menu, Internet Browser, DSP, friends, NS, and
NATIVE_FIRM to latest.

#### ARM11-kernel

Exactly 3 functions were updated, these are for
[Memory_Management](Memory_Management "wikilink"). Validation code for
[memchunk-headers](Memory_Management "wikilink") was changed. In the
New3DS kernel:

- L_fff1aab0, prev ver @ L_fff1aab0.
- L_fff1c730, prev ver @ L_fff1c6f0.
- L_fff26410, prev ver @ L_fff26394.

All three functions now prevent negative chunk sizes to be used, which
could have been used with hypotetical kernel-memory-read vulnerabilities
to exploit the memory-management code.

The first function ("validateChunk") now makes sure that:

`chunk + currentChunkSize >= currentChunk`

when checking that the current chunk doesn't overlap with either the
previous or next one.

The second function ("Kern::ControlMemory"), aside from other small
changes, now makes additional checks on the previously allocated memory
chunk; the code for that is now:

`if(chunkSizeInPages >= regionSize >> 12 || chunk < regionBase || chunk + chunkSize < chunk || chunk + chunkSize > regionBase + regionSize) panic;`

The third function ("insertChunk") now makes the following checks:

`if(chunkSizeInPages >= regionSize >> 12 || regionBase + regionSize < chunk + chunkSize) panic;`
`// ...`
`if(leftChunk && leftChunk + leftChunkSize <= leftChunk) panic; // this check was already done on 'right'`

#### FIRM-modules

Only the following FIRM-modules were updated: fs and loader.

##### loader

It appears only one function changed in loader: L_140022b8 previously @
L_140022b8. Codebin physical memory randomization was enabled for all of
the following titles:

- USA/EUR "VVVVVV"
- USA/EUR/JPN "Freakyforms Deluxe: Your Creations, Alive!"
- USA/EUR/JPN "Pokémon Super Mystery Dungeon"
- "Pokémon Omega Ruby" + "Pokémon Alpha Sapphire"
- USA/EUR/JPN "Citizens of Earth"
- "Pokémon Picross"

##### fs

0x18-bytes were added to an u32 array in .rodata containing a list of
title uniqueIDs, with the additional data at address 0x00134094. This
array was already in FS-module. A new UTF-16 string "/updated.dat" was
added @ .rodata 0x0013411c.

The titles in this list are:

- "Pokémon X"
- "Pokémon Y"
- "Pokémon Omega Ruby"
- "Pokémon Alpha Sapphire"
- "Pokémon Sun"
- "Pokémon Moon"

A new FSUSER [command](FS:CheckUpdatedDat "wikilink") was added. If the
command returns an error, the caller assumes false.

All code changes:

- LT_10d8b0: New func, the actual handler for the new command.
- LT_111480: Updated, prev ver @ LT_111330. After writing 0x27 to
  struct+4, this now writes 0x6 to struct+16.
- L_129434: New func, calls LT_10d8b0. This function is called by the
  cmdhandler.
- L_12b4fc: Updated, prev ver @ L_12b330. FSUSER cmdhandler, now calls
  L_129434 for the new command.

#### NS

The code for [<APT:IsTitleAllowed>](APT:IsTitleAllowed "wikilink") was
updated.

It now adds a version check for SmileBASIC, and enforces minimum
[major-versions](Titles "wikilink") 7 for JAP and 2 for USA. This means
that smilehax is impossible on latest firmware.

Same function also now checks for the "Animal Crossing: New Leaf" title
in EUR+JAP+USA, and checks if [major-version](Titles "wikilink") is
higher than 3. If version is \<=3, it calls the new fs
[command](FS:CheckUpdatedDat "wikilink") with the title-id of the Animal
Crossing game. If the new fs command returns true, it returns that the
game is not allowed to be launched, otherwise it will launch it despite
being too old.

This functionality appears to be for preventing the user from switching
from an newer version of the application to an older version, where the
newer version isn't released yet at the time the sysupdate was released.
The newer version would (presumably) write to savedata
["/updated.dat"](FS:CheckUpdatedDat "wikilink"), which would trigger
launch-not-allowed if the user tries to run an older version of the
application.

The only other changes are for some initialization-related(?) code,
which seem to be minor.

#### DSP-sysmodule

The only actual *code* change was that the handler function called by
the
[DSP:RegisterInterruptEvents](DSP:RegisterInterruptEvents "wikilink")
function was updated. Validation code was added for the input at the
beginning of the function.

#### friends-sysmodule

Like past updates, the only codebin change was for updating the
fpdver(6-\>7).

### Home Menu

The icon vulns were [fixed](3DS_Userland_Flaws "wikilink"), hence latest
menuhax as of sysupdate release was fixed for this system-version. The
only code changes were for updating 2 functions, for fixing these 2
vulns(RomFS wasn't changed).

### Internet Browser

See [here](Internet_Browser "wikilink") for details. The
[browser-version-check](Internet_Browser "wikilink") pages for the old
browser versions were updated just
[minutes](https://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/browserupdate/) after the
sysupdate was released, unlike like past updates where it took weeks.

## See Also

System update report(s):

- [1](https://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=09-13-16_12-05-19&sys=ctr)
- [2](https://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=09-13-16_12-05-28&sys=ktr)

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")