+++
title = '11.8.0 41'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

The Old3DS+New3DS 11.8.0-41 system update was released on July 30, 2018.
This Old3DS+New3DS update was released for the following regions: USA,
EUR, JPN, CHN, KOR, and TWN.

Security flaws fixed: \<fill this in manually later, see the
updatedetails page from the ninupdates-report page(s) once available for
now\>.

## Change-log

[Official](https://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/667/p/430/c/267)
USA change-log:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience

## System Titles

\<fill this in (manually) later\>

### NATIVE_FIRM

#### Process9

Actual code changed in Process9.

pxi:am9 command 0x6d0184 was added, see
[AMPXI:ExportTicketWrapped](AMPXI:ExportTicketWrapped "wikilink")

The anti-downgrade list was updated (versions bumped and new titles were
added, such as TWL_FIRM).

#### Kernel11

3 functions were updated, besides the descriptor parsing func (which had
the version value updated):

- [svcControlProcessMemory](SVC "wikilink"): At the start, this was
  added:
  `if (Addr0==NULL || ((Type==MEMOP_MAP || Type==MEMOP_UNMAP) && Addr1==NULL)) return 0xD8E007F6;`
- [svcConnectToPort](SVC "wikilink"): The string comparison func was
  removed and is now inlined.
- The SlabHeap object allocator func will now panic if the ptr it would
  have returned is NULL.

#### KIPs

No changes.

### AM

New am:net command 0x8290184 was added, see
[AMNet:ExportTicketWrapped](AMNet:ExportTicketWrapped "wikilink"). This
is used by nim.

### Friends

fpdver version string bumped to 0xC

### nim

Added 2 new strings in the codebin: "X-Authentication-Key" and
"X-Authentication-Data".

Now uses
[AMNet:ExportTicketWrapped](AMNet:ExportTicketWrapped "wikilink") during
code related to downloading contents(?) (function at 0x143B9C; its
caller at 0x123ABC uses amnet:Begin/ResumeImportContent)

If ExportTicketWrapped succeeded, then the new http headers are passed:
"X-Authentication-Key" set to base64(wrapped_aes_key) and
"X-Authentication-Data" set to base64(crypted_ticket).

## Server-side changes

When 11.8.0-41 launched, the X-Authentication headers were not required;
however, if they were indeed "voluntarily" sent, unsigned tickets would
still have resulted in the download being blocked.

On 2018-8-9, at approximately the later half of 13h GMT, ticket-less
downloads (of [contents](NCCH "wikilink") as well as
[TMDs](TMD "wikilink")) started being blocked for a small number of
titles, mainly 1st and 2nd party (but not their entirety: [list as of
2018-8-11](https://gbatemp.net/threads/z.514370/page-12#post-8210076))

The selection of affected titles appears to be manually maintained, and
it is speculated (but not readily provable) that contractual limitations
may influence Nintendo's ability to implement this change without
consent of the original developers, hence the still very limited number
of affected titles.

At a similiar time on 2018-8-22, this restriction started being enforced
for all 3DS commercial applications (titleID 00040000-\*).

## See Also

System update report(s):

- [1](https://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=07-30-18_08-00-36&sys=ctr)
- [2](https://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=07-30-18_08-00-40&sys=ktr)

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")