+++
title = '3dbrew:Copyrights'
+++

3DBrew.org is a website devoted to hacking and documenting Nintendo's
3DS portable video game console. Information found on this website is
found through legal reverse engineering (both in the hardware and
software sense) and publicly available information.

This website can be edited by anyone who registers an account on this
website. Because of this, this website cannot be held responsible for
information submitted by users, as it is impossible to fully monitor
information that is submitted to this website. If information is found
to infringe copyright, or IP (Intellectual Property) laws, etc., it must
be removed and reported to a site administrator immediately.

- このウェブサイトに掲載されている情報は、10名以上のユーザーの賛成なしで逐次刊行物には掲載しないでください。また、誤りのある情報を掲載しないよう、事前にその内容を知らせること。

## NDAs (Non-Disclosure Agreements)

NDAs (Non-Disclosure Agreements) are legal agreements issued to
companies and individuals who request information from another
company(s) or individual(s). These agreements state what information you
can and cannot disclose to people who are and aren't under the same NDA,
in exchange for you being given such private information. Disclosing any
of this information on this website, other websites, to other people(s)
or another company(s) is a violation of the agreement and therefore
illegal.

For this reason, information you have obtained via an NDA, and/or from
someone(s) or a company(s) who have signed an NDA, etc., cannot be
disclosed on this website. Please refrain from doing so. Any information
found to have been from a source where the supplier has signed an NDA,
or has been indirectly obtained from someone(s) or some company(s) who
have signed an NDA, will be removed.

## Notice

Information on this website should not infringe on the copyrights of any
company(s) or person(s), including, but not limited to Nintendo Co.,
Ltd., Digital Media Professionals (DMP) Inc., any of their affiliated
companies or persons, etc. Any information found to infringe any
copyrights, intellectual property(s) (IP), NDAs (non-disclosure
agreements), etc., must be removed and reported to a site administrator
immediately.

Nintendo 3DS is a registered trademark of Nintendo Co., Ltd. All related
text, logos, graphics, etc., copyright Nintendo Co., Ltd. 2010 - 2011.

PICA is a registered trademark of Digital Media Professionals (DMP) Inc.
All related text, logos, graphics, etc., copyright Digital Media
Professionals (DMP) Inc. 2006 - 2011 (?).