+++
title = '4.0.0 7'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

**Ability to add folders**

Probably the biggest new feature, this lets you organise your Home Menu
with folders. Here's how they work. Select an unoccupied tile and select
"Create Folder". Tap "Edit Settings" if you want to name your folder,
but remember: only the first letter shows up on its Home Menu icon. The
full name appears on the top screen when you tap the folder. Press your
stylus onto an icon for a second and you'll 'pick it up'. Drag it over
to the folder and take your stylus off the screen to 'drop' the icon
into the folder. That's pretty much all there is to it. You can't put
folders inside other folders, so don't try to nest them.

Video: <http://youtu.be/Uo8cm9rpAA4>

**eShop Revamp**

The other most noticeable improvement is to the eShop. Here's what's
new:

- New layout — now split into two rows, the bottom is for easy access to
  3DS Download Software, 3DS Virtual Console, DSiWare and 3DS Demos,
  while the top row is for the usual curated list and 'themes'. The
  search bar is now at the top, too.
- QR Code option — the 3DS has been able to scan QR codes for ever, but
  now the eShop gives you a bespoke option. Tap this in the
  Settings/Other menu, scan a QR code and it'll open the relevant page
  in the eShop.
- Download Later - You can now choose to download later when
  downloading. Meaning you can decide to download later after you chose
  to download it (kind of a cancel button for downloading).

**Ability to patch games**

This is a big one. Nintendo has added the ability for games — both
retail and download — to receive updates in the form of patches or free
add-on content. Here's what will be available in future. Mario Kart 7
will get an update to address glitches. This update will be released in
May, so don't go looking for it now. Mighty Switch Force! will get five
extra levels and a quick-retry button, all for free.

**ErrDisp updated**

[ErrDisp](ErrDisp "wikilink") was updated however it's unknown what
changed. When the ARM11 kernel terminates an application process
including when it crashed, the system now returns to [Home
Menu](Home_Menu "wikilink"). Prior to this update, the system hanged
when application processes terminated.

**TWL_FIRM updated**

TWL_FIRM and the whitelist was updated, blocking the savegame exploits
for Cooking Coach and Classic Word Games, and blocked flash cards.

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")
