+++
title = '5.0.0 11'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

### Official Changelog

- "Users will no longer need to close the Nintendo eShop application to
  ensure the "Download Later" feature works while the Nintendo 3DS is in
  Sleep Mode."
- "Other improvements to usability have been made, including the ability
  to download software update data in the background."
- "Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience."

### Update Failure

In some cases the system failed to install the updated NATIVE_FIRM to
the NAND [FIRM](FIRM "wikilink") partitions, thus the system still
[booted](Bootloader "wikilink") from the previous version of the
[FIRM](FIRM "wikilink") stored in the NAND partition which was not
written to. This then caused launching the updated System Settings and
eShop applications mentioned below to fail, since application
[CXIs](NCCH#cxi "wikilink") built with the updated CTR-SDK moved the
logo data from the ExeFS to a separate NCCH section.

This update failure was fixed with [5.1.0-11](5.1.0-11 "wikilink"). When
this [FIRM](FIRM "wikilink") install fails with this update the [System
Updater](System_Settings#system_updater "wikilink") is still accessible
via the [UPDATEFLAG](Configuration_Memory "wikilink") PAD button-combo,
since the System Updater title was not yet updated when the FIRM install
failed.

### Applications

System Settings, System Transfer, and eShop (including the mint applet)
were updated.

Home Menu, Game Notes, Instruction Manual, ErrDisp, and Internet Browser
were updated. ErrDisp now displays more debug info on dev/debug units,
including what exactly triggered a data/prefetch abort etc.

### System Modules

All system modules were updated.

### NATIVE_FIRM and other titles

NATIVE_FIRM and the whitelist were updated. NGWord and the NZone
hotspots title were updated as well.

Multiple NATIVE_FIRM vulnerabilities were fixed, this includes all known
Process9 PXI-service code execution vulns at the time when the update
was released. These were vulns in [Process9](FIRM "wikilink") PXI
services, the ARM11-kernel flaws which were fixed do not allow ARM11
kernel-mode code-execution. The system does not delete/block 3DS
savegame haxx at all with this update, however the code execution haxx
used by this was fixed.

The system can now optionally load the [CXI](NCCH#cxi "wikilink") logo
from a cleartext region in the CXI instead of from ExeFS. NATIVE_FIRM
versions prior to 5.0.0-11 can't access the logo data in applications
built since 5.0.0-11. Therefore regardless of gamecard system-updates,
applications built since 5.0.0-11 can only be run with the 5.0.0-11+
NATIVE_FIRM. Note that only home menu seems to use the NCCH logo data,
system modules like [NS](NS "wikilink") don't use the logo data.

A new command was added for
[AMPXI](Application_Manager_Services_PXI "wikilink").

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")
