+++
title = '6.0.0 11'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

The 6.0.0-11 system update was released on June 17, 2013, in USA.
Elsewhere, the system-version is 6.0.0-12.

### Changelog

Official changelog:

- "Users can now back up save data for downloadable versions of Nintendo
  3DS software and most Virtual Console games"
- "Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience "

See [SD Savedata Backups](SD_Savedata_Backups "wikilink") regarding the
SD file-copy .sav backup feature.

### Applications

[System Settings](System_Settings "wikilink") and the SAFE_MODE [System
Updater](System_Settings#System_Updater "wikilink") application were
updated. For each region except USA, the [Nintendo 3DS
Camera](Nintendo_3DS_Camera "wikilink") application, the [StreetPass Mii
Plaza](StreetPass_Mii_Plaza "wikilink") application, and the [Health and
Safety Information](Health_and_Safety_Information "wikilink")
application were updated.

The non-USA update for [StreetPass Mii
Plaza](StreetPass_Mii_Plaza "wikilink") added support for DLC to this
application.

### System Titles

[Home Menu](Home_Menu "wikilink") and [NS CFA](NS_CFA "wikilink") were
updated for [SD Savedata Backups](SD_Savedata_Backups "wikilink").
[NS](NS "wikilink") was updated for handling the new
ctr_backup_black_list file in [NS CFA](NS_CFA "wikilink"). The [Nintendo
Zone](Nintendo_Zone "wikilink") hotspot list CFA was updated. [SD
Savedata Backups](SD_Savedata_Backups "wikilink")(for copying the .sav
backups on SD etc) is implemented in either NS, or Home Menu / System
Settings.

The following system modules were updated:
[AM](Application_Manager_Services "wikilink"), camera, cfg, DSP, GSP,
MCU, PTM, [CECD](StreetPass "wikilink"), [NIM](NIM_Services "wikilink"),
[PS](Process_Services "wikilink"), [BOSS](SpotPass "wikilink"), and
NWM(including the SAFE_MODE NWM).

### [FIRM](FIRM "wikilink") and other titles

All FIRM titles(NATIVE_FIRM, AGB_FIRM, and TWL_FIRM) were updated, the
DS whitelist was updated as well.

All of the ARM11 modules stored in NATIVE_FIRM were updated.

Process9 had the following changes:

- Support for a new [gamecard](NCSD "wikilink")
  [savegame](Savegames "wikilink") keyY generation method was
  implemented, enabled via [NCSD](NCSD "wikilink") flags. Every gamecard
  which has a system-update \>= [2.2.0-X](2.2.0-X "wikilink")(in the
  [System Update CFA](System_Update_CFA "wikilink") NCSD partition) uses
  the keyY generation method added with [2.2.0-X](2.2.0-X "wikilink"),
  therefore every game which would release with this 6.0.0-X
  system-update would use this new keyY generation method.
- Code which is likely gamecard-related was added/changed as well.
- Various other changes.
- Some cmd-handler code checking the buf-headers' value now uses "&
  0xFD" instead of "& 0xFF".
- Process9 no longer uses the CTRSDK heap code.

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")
