+++
title = '7.0.0 13'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

The 7.0.0-13 system update was released on December 9, 2013.

## Change-log

Official change-log:

- Added support for Nintendo Network IDs
- Added support for Miiverse
- Added a Software Update Notification
- Removed the limit to system transfers
- Changed the start-up method of Nintendo 3DS Camera from the HOME Menu
  to require pressing the L and R Buttons simultaneously
- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience

# Applications

The following applications were updated: [System
Settings](System_Settings "wikilink"), [Activity
Log](Activity_Log "wikilink")(non-JPN), [Nintendo 3DS
Camera](Nintendo_3DS_Camera "wikilink")(non-JPN), [Nintendo 3DS
Sound](Nintendo_3DS_Sound "wikilink"), [Mii
Maker](Mii_Maker "wikilink"), [StreetPass Mii
Plaza](StreetPass_Mii_Plaza "wikilink"), [eShop](eShop "wikilink"),
[System Transfer](System_Transfer "wikilink"), [Face
Raiders](Face_Raiders "wikilink"), and [AR Games](AR_Games "wikilink").
A new title was added where the TID-High is the application TID-High.

## System Settings fix

The NVRAM DS settings [vulnerability](3DS_exploits "wikilink") in System
Settings was fixed by adding the following code for the string length
fields: before copying the data, the updated function will use the
actual max length of the string for copying data if the length from the
settings is too large.

# System CFAs

[NS CFA](NS_CFA "wikilink") was updated, 3 [new](Title_list "wikilink")
titles with TID-high 0004001B were added as well.

The "area:" archive, an unknown archive, and the "eula:" archive were
updated.

The [Nintendo Zone](Nintendo_Zone "wikilink") hotspot list,
[CVer](CVer "wikilink"), and [NVer](NVer "wikilink") were updated.

# System Titles

[Home Menu](Home_Menu "wikilink"), [Internet
Browser](Internet_Browser "wikilink"), Friend List applet, swkbd applet,
and mint applet were updated. 2 [new](Title_list "wikilink") titles with
TID-High 00040030 were added.

# System Modules

The following system modules were updated: cfg, codec, MCU, PTM, AC,
[CECD](StreetPass "wikilink"), http, NIM, friends,
[BOSS](SpotPass "wikilink"), and [NS](NS "wikilink") were updated. A
[new](Title_list "wikilink") system module was added: "act" for handling
Nintendo Network accounts.

# FIRM and whitelist

NATIVE_FIRM and the DS gamecard whitelist were updated.

NATIVE_FIRM now supports a new encryption method for certain
[NCCH](NCCH "wikilink") sections, when a flag in the NCCH header is set.
The keyslot for this is now initialized during NATIVE_FIRM boot from the
same function which initializes the 6.0 gamecard
[savegame](Savegames "wikilink") keyY, see the [NCCH](NCCH "wikilink")
page for details. No 7.0.0-13 system titles seem to use this new
encryption, this is presumably enabled by default for all titles built
starting with 7.0.0-13+ for non-system titles: the first known title to
use this was the updated version of the eShop YouTube application.

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")