+++
title = '8.0.0 18'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

The 8.0.0-18 system update was released on July 7, 2014.

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/231)
change-log:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience.

## System Titles

eShop, [NVer](NVer "wikilink"), [CVer](CVer "wikilink"), and the
[NZone](Nintendo_Zone "wikilink") hotspots list were updated. The
"masterkey.bin" [file](CVer "wikilink") in the CVer RomFS was
updated(different u32 value at offset 0x0 and different random data).
The "cup_list" file was removed from the CVer RomFS as well.

The 0004009B00012302 USA title(and the equivalent titleIDs for the other
regions) was updated. "romfs:/300000.bin" was added,
"romfs:/<Region>_<Language>/300000_msbt_LZ.bin" was added for all of
the directories in the RomFS too(the msbt files contain messages
involving eShop).

All non-SAFE_MODE system modules were updated. The CTRSDK crt0 code was
updated: code was added for using [svcGetProcessInfo](SVC "wikilink")
with type=20, the output value is written to a state field. Due to this
change, any titles using this additional new code will not work on
pre-v8.0 NATIVE_FIRM: this triggers a [fatal-error](ErrDisp "wikilink"),
when ErrDisp was launched successfully to begin with. The CTRSDK
LINEAR-memory vaddr-\>physaddr conversion code was basically replaced
with code which uses the above field, however when the vaddr is within
the memory for the [NS](NS "wikilink") SharedFont the conversion code
can use either of the mappings(0x14000000/0x30000000).

Certain modules had the actual module code updated as well, such as
[GSP](GSP_Services "wikilink") and [IR](IR_Services "wikilink"), and
likely others. GSP and CSND modules were updated to support LINEAR
addresses in the range 0x30000000-0x40000000.

Note that unlike past CTRSDK versions(specifically CTRSDK v7.\* for
system-version v7.x), the CTRSDK version for system-version v8.x is
v9.\*.

[ErrDisp](ErrDisp "wikilink"), eShop mint applet(used for accessing
eShop outside of the eShop application, like DLC), and SNOTE_AP were
updated, these now use the v7.0 NCCH encryption. None of the other
updated titles use the v7.0 NCCH encryption(besides the ones which use
it already). Due to [ErrDisp](ErrDisp "wikilink") being updated, this
breaks booting 8.0.0-18 on physical \<=v4.x systems where the key-data
for the v7.0 NCCH crypto wasn't initialized correctly.

## [FIRM](FIRM "wikilink")

NATIVE_FIRM was updated. The ARM9-kernel, [Process9](FIRM "wikilink"),
the ARM11-kernel, and all of the ARM11 FIRM-modules were updated.

Process9 had minor / various other changes, including gamecard-related
code changes. Support for new exheader/accessdesc fields were
[implemented](NCCH/Extended_Header "wikilink").
[FSPXI:GetSpecialContentIndex](Filesystem_services_PXI "wikilink") was
updated to add support for a new value(unknown where the field for that
originates). Process9 now uses VRAM size 0x600000 instead of 0x400000
for [FIRM](FIRM "wikilink")(during FIRM launch) section address+size
verification, and for the memory-clear code for the FIRM-launch panic
function.

The LINEAR memory region has been moved to virtual address 0x30000000,
however in certain cases the 0x14000000 mapping is used instead for
backwards-compatibility(see [here](SVC "wikilink") and
[here](Memory_layout "wikilink")). When the v8.0 NATIVE_FIRM is running,
any process which uses the new 0x30000000 LINEAR-memory mapping will not
work with \<v8.0 system-modules for LINEAR memory(such as GSP/CSND
module).

Most of the ARM11 FIRM-modules changes are likely minor. Certain code in
pm-module was updated to clear bitmask 0xF0000000 in
programID-lows(other code in pm-module was changed too). When handling
the exheader dependency list, pm-module now skips handling titles in
this list which have any bits in programID-low bitmask 0xF0000000
set(this is currently hard-coded). The exheader dependency list handling
change is for the [New 3DS](New_3DS "wikilink")
[system-module](Title_list "wikilink")(s), which do not exist on
8.0.0-18.

ARM11 kernel changes(besides various other (minor) changes):

- Multiple [SVCs](SVC "wikilink") were stubbed(that is, these only
  return an error now).
- The code for svcControlMemory was updated.
- The code for svcGetProcessInfo was updated: previously a total of 9
  type values were handled, this now handles a total of 24 type values.
- The code for svcStartInterProcessDma was updated. When the DmaConfig
  userland-\>kernelmode data-copy fails(like when the DmaConfig address
  is not readable from userland), this SVC now returns an error. Certain
  fields in the DmaConfig structure are now validated.
- The end-address for process [memory](Memory_layout "wikilink") has
  been changed from virtual-address 0x20000000, to 0x40000000.
  Therefore, the L1 MMU table size for each process is now 0x1000-bytes,
  previously it was 0x800-bytes.
- The [KProcess](KProcess "wikilink") structure was changed.
- The privileged-mode memory layout was changed, see
  [here](Memory_layout "wikilink").

## See Also

- System update
  [report](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=07-07-14_10-13-44&sys=ctr)

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")
