+++
title = '8.1.0 0 New3DS'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

This is the system-version that ships with launch-day JPN
[New_3DS](New_3DS "wikilink") systems. The TMD HTTP Last-modified date
for these titles is September 26, 2014.

Most of the system titles which are not New3DS specific, are from
[8.1.0-18](8.1.0-18 "wikilink"). When a New3DS version of a system-title
is available, only the New3DS title is installed, the Old3DS version is
not installed.

This launch system-version has title-versions specific to this launch
system-version, for titles which aren't New3DS specific(and also titles
from [9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")): [CVer](CVer "wikilink"),
0004001B00018202, 0004001B00018102(same title-version as
[9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")), [NS CFA](NS_CFA "wikilink")(same
title-version as [9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")), [Nintendo 3DS
Camera](Nintendo_3DS_Camera "wikilink")(same title-version as
[9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")), [Download
Play](Download_Play "wikilink")(same title-version as
[9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")), [Download
Play](Download_Play "wikilink")(same title-version as
[9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")), [System
Settings](System_Settings "wikilink"),
[ErrDisp](ErrDisp "wikilink")(same title-version as
[9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")), [Home Menu](Home_Menu "wikilink"),
Camera applet(same title-version as [9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")),
Instruction Manual applet(same title-version as
[9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")), Game Notes applet(same title-version
as [9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")), Friend List applet(same
title-version as [9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")), Notifications applet,
Miiverse applet(same title-version as [9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")),
Software Keyboard applet(same title-version as
[9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")), appletEd(same title-version as
[9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")), PNOTE_AP, SNOTE_AP,(same title-version
as [9.0.0-20](9.0.0-20 "wikilink")), mint, extrapad, memolib, and error
applet.

See [Title_list](Title_list "wikilink") for the full 8.1.0-0_New3DS
title-listing, for titles which aren't New3DS-specific.

The system-transfer application is not installed with this
system-version.

### New3DS System Titles

New3DS versions of the SAFE_MODE system-modules were added, the only
New3DS SAFE_MODE system-modules which were not added are: camera,
[cecd](StreetPass "wikilink"), MP, and NDM.

Besides the 3 new modules below, New3DS versions of the following native
system-modules were added: camera, GSP, i2c, MCU, PTM, and spi.

The following 3 new sysmodules were added(not available for SAFE_MODE):

- [NFC](NFC_Services "wikilink") -- talking to NFC hardware (over I2C).
- [MVD](MVD_Services "wikilink")
- [QTM](QTM_Services "wikilink") -- camera headtracking? (over I2C).

5 new applications for New3DS-only were added. See
[here](Title_list "wikilink") regarding the new applications. Besides
those applications, New3DS versions of the following applications were
added: "Health and Safety Information" and Face Raiders.

The New3DS versions of the following SAFE_MODE applets were added:
[ErrDisp](ErrDisp "wikilink"), error, and swkbd(Software Keyboard).

A New3DS version of [NVer](NVer "wikilink") was added. Therefore, there
could be future New3DS-only system-updates.

Note that the New3DS Internet Browser is not available on this
system-version(spider and SKATER titles are not installed), it was added
with [this](9.0.0-20 "wikilink"). Trying to launch the browser results
in the system going to the system-update section under [System
Settings](System_Settings "wikilink").

#### FIRM

New3DS versions of all 4 [FIRM](FIRM "wikilink") titles were added.

New3DS FIRM uses an additional crypto layer on the ARM9 FIRM section via
a loader at the end of the ARM9 binary, see [here](FIRM "wikilink").

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")
