+++
title = '9.0.0 20'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

The 9.0.0-20 system update was released on October 6, 2014.

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/231)
change-log:

- Users can now use themes to customize the design and sounds of the
  HOME Menu
- Five themes are pre-installed and additional themes can be purchased
  from the Theme Shop
- Themes can be changed by using settings located within the HOME Menu
  settings
- A feature has been added that allows users to capture screenshots of
  their HOME Menu
- The Nintendo eShop Title Information page has been updated to provide
  easier access to any available videos, demos, user reviews, and other
  information
- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience

See [here](Home_Menu/Themes "wikilink") regarding themes.

## System Titles

### 3DS

The following system-modules were updated: AM, camera, cfg, codec, gsp,
hid, ac, [cecd](StreetPass "wikilink"), CSND, dlp, http, ndm, NIM, NWM,
SOC, SSL, PS, friends, IR, [BOSS](SpotPass "wikilink"),
news(notifications), RO, NS, and act. For at least some of these
modules(including NWM), this was just a rebuild with the latest
CTRSDK(only change in .code was the CTRSDK version value(s) used with
[ErrDisp](ErrDisp "wikilink")).

The following applications were updated: System Settings, Download Play,
Nintendo 3DS Camera, eShop, System Transfer, and NNID settings.

The following "applets" were updated: [ErrDisp](ErrDisp "wikilink"),
Home Menu, camera, Instruction Manual, Game Notes, Friend List,
Notifications, error, Software Keyboard, appletEd, PNOTE_AP, SNOTE_AP,
extrapad, mint, Miiverse, and Miiverse memolib.

An applet with TID-low 00008B02 was [added](Title_list "wikilink"),
"solv3". The description from the ExeFS icon is "Post to Miiverse".

The following titles were also updated: 0004009B00012302, EULA CFA,
NGWord bad word list CFA, [Nintendo Zone](Nintendo_Zone "wikilink")
hotspot list CFA, [NVer](NVer "wikilink"), [CVer](CVer "wikilink"),
0004001B00018002, 0004001B00018102, and 0004001B00018202.

[NS_CFA](NS_CFA "wikilink") was updated, the following new file was
added to the RomFS: "qtm_black_list".

#### Old3DS FIRM

NATIVE_FIRM was also updated.

The Process9 FIRM-launch code now "clears" certain
[AES](AES_Registers "wikilink") keyslots, see
[here](AES_Registers "wikilink").

#### Application crashes

Starting with 9.0.0-20 on retail, the system may now triggers a
[fatal-error](ErrDisp "wikilink") when an application crashes(this is
the error-code fatal-error). At the time of writing this does not apply
to New3DS.

This error(0xd8c3fbf3) is caused by Home Menu failing to allocate
LINEAR-memory.

### New3DS

This update added the system-titles for New3DS to SOAP, for the
following regions: USA, EUR, and JPN. See
[here](8.1.0-0_New3DS "wikilink") for the launch-day JPN New3DS
system-version.

Most of the New3DS titles listed from SOAP here are from the launch-day
system-version [available](8.1.0-0_New3DS "wikilink") on CDN. Some of
the actual New3DS-specific changes with 9.0.0-20, is that the following
New3DS titles were updated: [NATIVE_FIRM](FIRM "wikilink") and
[NVer](NVer "wikilink"). The latest version of both of these titles have
the same HTTP Last-modified date as the
[8.1.0-0_New3DS](8.1.0-0_New3DS "wikilink").

The New3DS version of the [Internet
Browser](Internet_Browser "wikilink") was added, the exheader name is
"SKATER"(original 3DS name was "spider").

The following New3DS-only system applications were updated: [microSD
Management](microSD_Management "wikilink"), "menu" placeholder
application, and the "cherry" placeholder application.

This update also added the newly updated System-Transfer application(not
New3DS specific) to New3DS. This title is not installed with
[8.1.0-0_New3DS](8.1.0-0_New3DS "wikilink").

The following New3DS-specific system modules were updated: Camera, nfc,
mvd, and qtm.

See [Title_list](Title_list "wikilink") for the rest of the titles which
got updated on New3DS with 9.0.0-20(note that
[8.1.0-0_New3DS](8.1.0-0_New3DS "wikilink") has certain 9.0.0-20 titles
pre-installed).

# See Also

System update reports:

- [1](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=10-06-14_08-05-03&sys=ctr)
- [2](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=10-06-14_08-15-03&sys=ctr)
- [3](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=10-06-14_08-25-03&sys=ctr)
- [4](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=10-06-14_08-35-12&sys=ctr)

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")
