+++
title = '9.3.0 21'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

The 9.3.0-21 system update was released on December 8, 2014.

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/231)
change-log:

Changes to the HOME Menu:

- A Shuffle Favorites feature has been added under Change Theme in HOME
  Menu Settings. Users can choose multiple themes and have their theme
  change when the system is left in Sleep Mode from the HOME Menu or
  turned on after being off
- Available software updates can now be downloaded from the HOME Menu
- Users can now capture screenshots with both the upper and lower
  screens included

Improvements to system stability and usability:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience

Japanese New3DS-exclusive change log:

- Added support for various Japanese NFC wallets
- Added "amiibo Settings" in HOME Menu
- It is possible to delete the data which registered the owner and
  nickname of amiibo, written to amiibo.

## System Titles

The following new titles were added:
[Fangate_updater](Fangate_updater "wikilink"), Old3DS NFC system-module,
and the amiibo Settings system-applet.

The following applications were updated: [eShop](eShop "wikilink") and
Nintendo Network ID Settings.

The placeholder New3DS "menu" application was updated for all regions,
this is still stubbed. Likewise for the USA placeholder "friend"
application. The JPN [New_3DS](New_3DS "wikilink") [Health and Safety
Information](Health_and_Safety_Information "wikilink") application was
updated.

The following applets were updated: [Home Menu](Home_Menu "wikilink"),
Miiverse, memolib, appletEd, PNOTE_AP, and mint.

The New3DS [Internet Browser](Internet_Browser "wikilink") was updated
for all regions.

[CVer](CVer "wikilink"), [NVer](NVer "wikilink"), and New3DS NVer were
updated. The bad-word list and the NZone hotspot list were updated.

0004009B00012302 + equivalent titleIDs for other regions and
0004001B00018002 were updated.

The following system-modules were updated: Cfg, HID, AC, NIM, IR, RO,
NS, act, camera(Old3DS), GSP(Old3DS), and i2c(Old3DS).

The following New3DS system-modules were updated: camera, GSP, i2c, nfc,
and qtm.

Old3DS and New3DS NATIVE_FIRM were updated.

# Details

Multiple [system flaws](3DS_System_Flaws "wikilink") were fixed, this
includes a later-stage [system
flaw](3DS_System_Flaws "wikilink")(separate from anything listed in the
below NATIVE_FIRM section) used in [Ninjhax](Ninjhax "wikilink").
Ninjhax was not completely blocked.

Support for amiibo was added. Support for the Old3DS NFC
peripheral(which communicates with 3DS via IR) was added.

All updated New3DS titles now use New3DS-specific NCCH crypto, see
[here](NCCH "wikilink").

## NATIVE_FIRM

Most of the ARM11 kernel changes were to fix an ARM11 kernel
[flaw](3DS_System_Flaws "wikilink").

All ARM9 kernel changes:

- The ARM9 kernel equivalent of the above code involved with the above
  ARM11 kernel flaw was updated, the changes for that are exactly the
  same.
- An unknown kernel function was updated, this function seems to be
  ARM9-kernel specific.

All Process9 changes:

- The code for validating the
  [exheader](NCCH/Extended_Header "wikilink") was updated: the total
  number of service-access-control entries this uses was changed from
  0x20 to 0x22, and the valid range for "ARM9 Descriptor Version" was
  changed.
- Keytype value 0x9 support was added to
  [PSPXI:EncryptDecryptAes](PSPXI:EncryptDecryptAes "wikilink").
- The New3DS-only commands for
  [Process_Services_PXI](Process_Services_PXI "wikilink") were removed,
  the code/data for those were moved into [NFC](NFC_Services "wikilink")
  module.
- Support for New3DS-only [NCCH](NCCH "wikilink") encryption was added.
- Support for gamecard savedata encryption using New3DS-only keyslots
  was added, see [here](NCSD "wikilink").

# See Also

System update reports:

- [1](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=12-08-14_07-05-03&sys=ctr)
- [2](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=12-08-14_07-15-03&sys=ctr)
- [3](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=12-08-14_07-25-04&sys=ctr)
- [4](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=12-08-14_07-35-04&sys=ctr)
- [5](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=12-08-14_07-45-04&sys=ctr)

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")
