+++
title = '9.5.0 22'
categories = ["Firmware Versions"]
+++

The 9.5.0-22 system update was released on February 2, 2015.

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/231)
change-log:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience.

## System Titles

The following titles were updated: [eShop](eShop "wikilink"), [Home
Menu](Home_Menu "wikilink"), [CVer](CVer "wikilink"), and Old3DS/New3DS
[NVer](NVer "wikilink").

The GPIO system-module and the [NFC](NFC_Services "wikilink") New3DS
system-module were updated.

Old3DS/New3DS NATIVE_FIRM was updated. None of the Old3DS/New3DS
system-titles updated with 9.5.0-22 actually require this NATIVE_FIRM.

### [Home Menu](Home_Menu "wikilink")

These changes are minor, this includes removal of some throw_fatalerr()
func calls.

### GPIO system-module

These changes are minor. Code was added to the function handling GPIO
service command 0x000A0042, for closing the input handle when an error
occurs in this function.

### NATIVE_FIRM

In Old3DS/New3DS Process9 only \*one\* u32 was changed: the address of
the FIRM header used during FIRM launch. This fixes
[firmlaunch-hax](3DS_System_Flaws#FIRM_Process9 "wikilink").

There was no actual code changes in the ARM11 kernel.

### New3DS NATIVE_FIRM

The ARM9-loader has added a new keyX with keyslot 0x16 that is generated
on hard-boot. The ARM9 binary is now encrypted with this keyslot,
instead of the [original](FIRM "wikilink") one.

This new crypto is rather useless due to Nintendo failing yet again. The
[flaws](3DS_System_Flaws "wikilink") which allowed for this were fixed
with 9.5.0-X.

# See Also

System update reports:

- [1](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=02-02-15_07-05-07&sys=ctr)
- [2](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=02-02-15_07-17-33&sys=ctr)
- [3](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=02-02-15_07-38-28&sys=ctr)
- [4](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=02-02-15_07-55-18&sys=ctr)

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")
