The 9.6.0-24 system update was released on March 23, 2015.

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/231)
change-log:

- A Home Menu Layout setting has been added to HOME Menu Settings. Users
  can save and load up to 8 layouts of the HOME Menu with different
  theme and software icon arrangements
- Additional categories have been added to the Theme Shop under “View
  More” for easier navigation
- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience

<!-- -->

- Nintendo 3DS, Nintendo 3DS XL, and Nintendo 2DS Systems Only:
  - amiibo Settings has been added to HOME Menu Settings. amiibo
    Settings allows users to register an amiibo owner and nickname,
    delete data written to an amiibo by supported software, or reset an
    amiibo\*
  - This feature will require a peripheral device scheduled to launch in
    2015

## System Titles

All updated New3DS-only titles except for [NVer](NVer "wikilink") and
NATIVE_FIRM were switched to the new NCCH crypto.

The following system applications were updated: System Settings, eShop,
and System Transfer.

The New3DS-only placeholder menu system-application was updated(still a
stub).

The following system applets were updated: Home Menu, error applet,
mint, Miiverse applet, amiibo Settings, and the New3DS [Internet
Browser](Internet_Browser "wikilink").

The following system-modules were updated: Config, GSP(Old3DS/New3DS),
PTM(Old3DS/New3DS), Download Play, HTTP, NIM, SSL, IR, NS, act, and
NFC(Old3DS/New3DS).

The following CFAs were updated: 0004009B00010402, 0004009B00012302(and
the equivalent non-USA-region titles), NGWord bad word list, Nintendo
Zone hotspot list, [NVer](NVer "wikilink")(Old3DS/New3DS),
[CVer](CVer "wikilink"), and 0004001B00018002. [CVer](CVer "wikilink")
had a [new](CVer "wikilink") file added to RomFS.

The Old3DS [Fangate_updater](Fangate_updater "wikilink") title was
updated.

Old3DS/New3DS NATIVE_FIRM was updated.

Many other titles were updated/added for only KOR-region.

### New3DS NATIVE_FIRM

#### arm9loader

The arm9loader was updated.

Old version of firm generated and initialized keyX for keyslots 0x15,
0x16, 0x18-0x1F. This version keeps the old algorithm for keyslots 0x11,
0x15, 0x18.

For keyslots 0x16, 0x19-0x1F it uses a new key for keyslot 0x11, but the
actual algorithm has not been changed. This time the keyslot 0x11 seed
is loaded from (nand_sector96+0x10) instead of (nand_sector96+0). They
also changed the initialization vector for the 0x19-0x1F key-generation
to a new hardcoded key.

Since we don't know the decrypted value at (nand_sector96+0x10), we
don't know the new key for keyslot 0x11, and we cannot generate keys for
the updated keyslots 0x16, 0x19-0x1F. Thus they plugged their hole and
we can no longer decrypt arm9-binary without an arm9 code-execution
exploit compatible with 9.6.0-X or \<tricks where some of these
\*require\* nand-modding\>.

On panic, arm9loader now clears keyslots 0x15, 0x16, 0x18, 0x19,
0x19-0x1F. Previous versions only cleared 0-7, 0x15, 0x16.

#### Process9

The only actual code change for New3DS-only Process9 was that support
for a new [NCCH](NCCH "wikilink") crypto flag 0xB was added.

### NATIVE_FIRM

The ARM11-kernel and Process9 were updated. All of the ARM11-modules
were updated, FS-module had the most changes among these modules.

The following is all of the changes for the (Old3DS) ARM11-kernel:

- 4 functions all with the same following changes were updated, one of
  these functions is called by
  [svcWaitSynchronization1](SVC "wikilink"). Code was added which checks
  whether a certain s64 variable is \<=0, when it is the variable value
  is set to 0x7FFFFFFFFFFFFFFF.
- The only other updated function appears to be memory related?

## See Also

System update reports:

- [1](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=03-23-15_08-05-03&sys=ctr)
- [2](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=03-23-15_08-05-13&sys=ktr)

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")