+++
title = '9.7.0 25'
+++

The 9.7.0-25 system update was released on April 20, 2015.

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/231)
change-log:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience.

## System Titles

Old3DS/New3DS [NVer](NVer "wikilink") was updated.
[CVer](CVer "wikilink") was updated. The [eShop](eShop "wikilink")
application was updated.

[Home Menu](Home_Menu "wikilink") was updated.

The [DSP](DSP_Services "wikilink") and
[notifications](News_Services "wikilink")(see
[here](News_Services "wikilink") for the changes) system-modules were
updated. The Old3DS(not New3DS) [NFC](NFC_Services "wikilink") module
was updated.

The latest already-available versions of the following TWL titles were
added to the New3DS system-update SOAP response title-list: DS Internet,
Download Play, and card whitelist(previously those titles were not
included in the New3DS SOAP title-list at all).

Many titles were added to the KOR New3DS SOAP title-list.

The following Old3DS KOR-only title was updated: 0004009B00015502.

## CTRSDK update

Each of the updated system-titles include the following updated CTRSDK
function change.

Originally the "stack region" ctx init function just called another
function with: ctx=<addr>, address=0x0E000000, and size=0x02000000. With
this new version, [svcQueryMemory](SVC "wikilink") is used to find the
first 0x1000-byte unmapped memory starting at 0x0FFFF000(stopping at
0x0E000000 if it ever gets that far), decreasing the address by 0x1000
each time when the memory is mapped. Once finished, it then calls the
above function with: ctx=<addr>, address=0x0E000000, and
size=<locatedunmapped_memaddr>-0x0E000000. Hence, this region now ends
at <allocatedmainstack-0x1000>.

## See Also

System update reports:

- [1](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=04-20-15_08-05-03&sys=ctr)
- [2](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=04-20-15_08-05-11&sys=ktr)