+++
title = '9.8.0 25'
+++

The Old3DS+New3DS 9.8.0-25 system update was released on June 1, 2015
for all available regions.

No security flaws were fixed.

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/231)
change-log:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience.

## System Titles

All of the following titles were updated for Old3DS+New3DS: [Home
Menu](Home_Menu "wikilink"), [CVer](CVer "wikilink"),
[NS](NS "wikilink"), and mint (eShop applet).

Home Menu was only updated for USA, EUR, and JPN.

### [Home Menu](Home_Menu "wikilink")

The \*only\* changes here(besides exheader .text size) was that the
codebin got updated: .text was previously 0x00204C6C, it's now
0x00204D44. 4 functions were updated:

- L_105f38: This is the function handling application auto-booting.
  Previously auto-booting of the gamecard via the
  [icon](SMDH "wikilink") flag only happened when L_2317ec(L_2317ec
  address is for the current version) returned 0. Now, that function
  must return 0, or the gamecard [uniqueID](Title_list "wikilink") from
  [AM:GetTitleIDList](AMNet:GetTitleIDList "wikilink") must match
  0xF802A.
- L_1fc374: The following was added at the end right before "return 0;":
  if(L_215ba0()==0xc8613914)return 9;
- L_23ea9c: The code after the L_1fc374 call was updated: when
  retval==9, a new code-block is executed: ret=L_1fc374(...);
  if(ret!=2){return 1;}
  <jump to code which is also executed for the L_1fc374 call before this with retval==2>
- L_23f068:
  - The value passed to L_1fc374() sp8 was changed from 500 to 400(r9 is
    set to 400, before entering the loop here).
  - When L_1fc374 returns 9, the following is now done: r9-= 100; if(s32
    r9\<=0)return 1; \<"continue;" the loop\>
  - Code was added @ 23f2c4: if(someval==0){\<r0=ptr on the stack\>
    \<execute 3 nops\> \<"break;" from the loop\>}
  - The previously hard-coded "if(u32 val \<= u32 otherval+500)someval =
    0;"(someval is the same one as above) was changed to "if(u32
    otherval+<above r9 variable> \>= val)someval = 0;"
  - The loop ends(besides "break;") once someval==0.

### [NS](NS "wikilink")

The only actual change in functionality was that the function
initializing the NS internal titleID list was updated.

## See Also

System update reports:

- [1](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=06-01-15_08-05-03&sys=ctr)
- [2](http://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=06-01-15_08-05-12&sys=ktr)
