A miniature dictionary for terms that may be encountered on 3DSBrew.

<div class="noautonum">

__TOC__

</div>

## A

### AXI WRAM

The name given to 512KiB of SRAM ("Work" RAM) connected to the SOC via
AXI. It is where the ARM11 kernel resides.

### appcore

appcore is the name given to one of the Old 3DS's ARM11 CPU cores. It
refers to the core that is used to run games and other
[NCCH](NCCH "wikilink") content. The other core is called
[syscore](#syscore "wikilink").

## C

### C

A language homebrew developers program in, also used to make everything
from web browsers to timers for computers.

### C++

An object oriented language homebrew developers program in. Like its
name suggests, C++ is essentially a step up from C.

### CCI

[CTR Cart Image](NCSD#Overview "wikilink"). A file extension for game
ROM images. The file format is a specialisation of the
[NCSD](NCSD "wikilink") container format.

### CFA

[CTR File Archive](NCCH#CFA "wikilink"). A file extension for
[NCCH](NCCH "wikilink") containers that contain non-executable data.

### CIA

[CTR Importable Archive](CIA "wikilink"). A file extension used for
archives built from data from [Nintendo's CDN](Title_list "wikilink").

### Citra

A work-in-progress Nintendo 3DS emulator.

### CTR

Nintendoâ€™s codename for the Nintendo 3DS.

### CXI

[CTR eXecutable Image](NCCH#CXI "wikilink"). A file extension for
[NCCH](NCCH "wikilink") containers that contain executable code.

## D

### DSi

A handheld console created by Nintendo. It is the second successor to
the Nintendo DS, and the 6th generation portable Nintendo gaming system.
It features two (larger) screens, two cameras, and an online shop
system. The menu is also overhauled, now using similar channels as used
on the Wii. It has a screen brightness that can be set to one step
higher than the DS Lite.

### DS Lite

The predecessor to the DSi. It came after the original DS PHAT and has a
screen that can be set to 4x as bright as the DS PHAT.

### DS "PHAT"

The original Nintendo DS. It ended up being the successor to the Game
Boy, though Nintendo did not intend for this to happen. It added a touch
screen.

### DSP

Digital Signal Processor. The 3DS uses a DSP core to do the audio mixing
instead of relaying on dedicated mixing hardware like the predecessor.

### DSiWare

A platform started by Nintendo that allows developers to cheaply create
and then sell original content at low prices (compared to the prices of
brand new DSi games). All DSiWare games are available on the DSi Shop
Channel on the main menu.

### Dump

To extract the protected contents of something like a chip, NAND drive
or disc which are otherwise inaccessible and/or incomprehensible under
normal circumstances.

### DS Download Play

Another application built into the Nintendo 3DS firmware. It is a place
where people can download multiplayer games from another DS or 3DS. With
those compatible games it is possible to use only one game card while
playing with several people.

## E

### Exploit

A circumvention of security allowing a user to perform tasks that are
not normally permitted. Often several exploits will be employed in a
series with the user gaining increased authority over a system at each
step, the goal typically being complete access and control.

## F

### FCRAM

FCRAM (Fast Cycle RAM) is a new technology developed by the Fujitsu
Corporation that approaches the problem of DRAM/Processor speed in a
different way. It is one of the components of 3DS hardware.

## G

### gx

The official API provided by Nintendo to access the 3DS's graphics
subsystem.

## H

### Hexadecimal (Hex)

A term used to describe the base 16 number system, in which each digit
represents four bits. After the digits 0-9, the letters A-F are used to
represent the values 10-15. Hexadecimal is the preferred format for
displaying binary data, as it is easy to mentally convert to/from binary
and uses only 2 characters per byte.

### Home Menu

The 3DS's [Home Menu](Home_Menu "wikilink") is the main interface which
appears after the system is powered on. In the 3DS this is where all of
your default and downloaded channels and games are.

## I

### IRC

Internet Relay Chat is, real-time text-based chat over the Internet.

## M

### MPO

[Multi-Picture Object](MPO "wikilink") is the open file-format used by
Nintendo to make 3D images. It uses Exif tags and MP tags with JPG. MPO
files can be read like two JPG files stuck together.

## N

### [NCCH](NCCH "wikilink")

A file format for storing the content of any installed
[title](title "wikilink"). This is the format used by
[CXI](Glossary#CXI "wikilink") and [CFA](Glossary#CFA "wikilink") files.

### [NCSD](NCSD "wikilink")

A file format for grouping up to eight [NCCH](Glossary#NCCH "wikilink")
partitions. This is the format used by [CCI](Glossary#CCI "wikilink")
files and the [NAND
structure](Flash_Filesystem#NAND_structure "wikilink").

## P

### PICA200

The GPU used by the 3DS. See [Hardware#GPU](Hardware#GPU "wikilink").

## S

### SD Card

Secure Digital Cards are common type of memory cards used by the 3DS,
digital cameras, music players, etc. The standard SD card has a maximum
capacity of 2 gigabytes (2048 megabytes); however, some 4 GB cards exist
but are rare. These cards usually do not have great compatibility with
non-SDHC products, even though they are not SDHC, so 2 GB is the
preferable size.

### SDHC

Secure Digital High Capacity Card are a type of SD cards with a higher
storage capacity than normal ones. These are theoretically capable of
holding up to 2 terabytes of space, but are politically limited by the
current standards to 32 gigabytes.

### syscore

syscore is the name given to one of the Old 3DS's ARM11 CPU cores. It
refers to the core that is used to run the operating system software
stack. The other core is called [appcore](#appcore "wikilink").

## T

### Ticket

A [ticket](ticket "wikilink") is a file containing signature and
encryption information on a particular
[title](Glossary#Title "wikilink"). Tickets may be console-unique: In
particular, tickets for [eShop](eShop "wikilink") contents are issued
uniquely for each 3DS and hence cannot be transferred directly to other
devices. System titles (and other content not available on eShop) are
using tickets called [CommonETickets](Ticket#Some_facts "wikilink"),
which are common to all devices.

### Title

A [title](Titles "wikilink") is a 3DS Game on a card or in a 3DS. This
includes the built-in channels and menus. A title is identified by a
unique title ID, an 8 byte (4 character) long code used for title
identification. All titles are encrypted for security purposes.

Related pages: [Title list](Title_list "wikilink"), [Title
Metadata](Glossary#Title_Metadata_.28TMD.29 "wikilink"),
[Ticket](Glossary#Ticket "wikilink"), [Title
Database](Title_Database "wikilink")

### Title Metadata (TMD)

[Title metadata](Title_metadata "wikilink") is a format used for storing
metadata about a title and its installed contents, including which
contents they consist of and their SHA1 hashes.

### TWL

Codename used for the Nintendo DSi.

Related pages: [TWL FIRM](FIRM#TWL_FIRM "wikilink"), [ARM7
Registers](ARM7_Registers "wikilink")