This is a hacking site. If it is not for hacking,you need not upload or
edit files. Or you did find any games which seems to be exploitable?


I did not find any exploitable games.. I didn't think all the games on
that table were exploitable... just games so I started adding the list
of the games. Anyway it still got some mistakes according to what I
know. But I don't want to change it because I don't know enough in that
field of hacking.--[Elisherer](User:Elisherer "wikilink") 05:51, 31
August 2011 (CEST)

<!-- -->



Searching for exploits now is a waste of time. We don't know enough to
make exploits useful. --[Luigi2us](User:Luigi2us "wikilink") 15:38, 31
August 2011 (CEST)

<img src="HNI_0090_MPO.JPG" title="HNI_0090_MPO.JPG" width="120"
alt="HNI_0090_MPO.JPG" /> 3DS may be support this one. How do you think?
--[Matyapiro31](Matyapiro31 "wikilink") 16:40, 16 October 2011 (CEST)


I think Nintendo wouldn't use something that unconventional...It
propbably has a JTAG of some kind on the board. (Matyapiro please use
the sig button at the end of your comments...)
--[Elisherer](User:Elisherer "wikilink") 16:47, 16 October 2011 (CEST)

[3DS dev
model](http://www.ebay.com/itm/RARE-Nintendo-3DS-Panda-Development-Model-/170674509885#ht_500wt_1287)
--Matyapiro31 15:12, 18 October 2011 (CEST)


That's nice but I don't see it helping us at the moment (comparing to a
normal unit). --[Elisherer](User:Elisherer "wikilink") 17:10, 18 October
2011 (CEST)


Well, maybe we can get easy some information using a dev-model, because
Nintendo made these models for developers.

@[Matyapiro31](User:Matyapiro31 "wikilink"): What do you want to do with
the adapter shown on the picture
above?--[Lazymarek9614](User:Lazymarek9614 "wikilink") 17:45, 18 October
2011 (CEST)

elisherer,are you interested in capturing 3DS screen?

Some interesting result found in Japan.--Matyapiro31 16:18, 28 February
2012 (CET)


Ofcourse...tell me, tell me...--[Elisherer](User:Elisherer "wikilink")
18:14, 28 February 2012 (CET)

## added swedish translation

3DSExplorer/sw

`=)`

## about game saves

There is one product called "3ds Cyber Save Editor". Looked carefully
through the list of what games it supports, i found some games (that
taken its offical cartbarge release date as a reference) must have using
firmwares higher than 2.0.0 (which imported a new method of save
encryption) and even one just released less than a month ago (in fact
that is another title sorry). (If you need proofs i can get the list and
all their release dates uploaded to my skydrive). So what do you think
of such a product? If that do handle other games outside its support
list (that i mean i can backup my save of one game and let it decrypted
and resigned to your 3ds) i highly doubt it holding something like a
keyslot of 3ds, or it can dump your console key (hey not such less). Or
even it has more. well i'm getting many hunters cheating their games.


It doesn't need the key from the 3ds because games and their saves are
encrypted with general keys (which happens to be on the 3ds as well). I
think their dongle has a lot of logic in it (if it is what is says it
is) and is very much illegal... more on that subject I can't really
comment until they provide some proof..
--[Elisherer](User:Elisherer "wikilink") 18:13, 6 June 2013 (CEST)

(BTW could you please tell me where to edit if i do want to add CHN
translation of 3dsexplorer?)--[Syphurith](User:Syphurith "wikilink")
16:10, 5 June 2013 (CEST)


Sorry 3dsexplorer is not localizable..
--[Elisherer](User:Elisherer "wikilink") 18:13, 6 June 2013 (CEST)


Ok i know then. Tried to communicate on irc one or two days ago. There
Normmatt and others tried to analyse it, however got a result that all
those encrypt/decrypt things happened on their server and the save file
uploaded to remote seems to be a full one (that no clues about the
decryption of the saves). Yellow said the company should already have
lots of decrypted ncch or other things related to decrypt the saves, may
be even decapped the SoC (at least how could they get those commands?).

Got that. if we need to analyse that firmware file we should get that
product first (cause those binary/hex related to its core - STM32XXXX)
so that is not a very good way to explore. So leave that waiting for
chip decapping result. --[Syphurith](User:Syphurith "wikilink") 07:58, 7
June 2013 (CEST)

Sorry to disturb you again, but.. If i or my friends prepare those
CHNiese text for you, is it possible to add into the program? - Even i
can read English without much trouble, someone is finding that not easy
to use lol. BTW, what is the key that used to extract exefs.bin and so
on from CXI? I'm confused about that. Maybe the Retail key?
--[Syphurith](User:Syphurith "wikilink") 17:20, 21 June 2013 (CEST)


No trouble at all, 3dsexplorer is used by a few people (can count them
on one hand) so I wouldn't go thruogh the trouble of localizing it. It
isn't simple at all at this point. The key to extract is different on
each ncch, It needs to be extracted from the tmd with the common key
which isn't public (To sum it up, If you don't know about the keys then
you don't need 3dsexplorer). Anyway, Neimod made ctrtool better since I
stopped developing it and it might not be so fruitful
--[Elisherer](User:Elisherer "wikilink") 20:15, 22 June 2013 (CEST)

## Add me! 0662 - 4312 - 7555

Add me! 0662 - 4312 - 7555