How do you think 3DS can hack or not?

I think it difficult now.

What and when do you think allows us to enjoy
homebrew?[Matyapiro](User_talk:Matyapiro31 "wikilink")

- We've only recently started documenting the 3DS.
- It's easier for those with debugging hardware to contribute findings
  but that will change eventually.

Hi Jl12, Can you tell us where did you get the decrypted extended header
or how, or atleast give a copy of it...thanks. If you could send me it
would be great.

(eli (dot) sherer (at) gmail (dot) com)
--[Elisherer](User:Elisherer "wikilink") 10:42, 8 September 2011 (CEST)

Has he answered already? (I'm interested in that
too)--[Lazymarek9614](User:Lazymarek9614 "wikilink") 18:03, 14 September
2011 (CEST)

Hi Jl12, 3DS guy here with answers to your questions. No its not a kiosk
unit its a test unit. Kiosk units are retail units with auto-booting
demo games

- Q:Do you have a retail 3DS unit? I'm curious if your test unit will
  communicate with a retail 3DS unit. ( downloadplay, street-pass, etc.
  )

A:Yes I also have a retail 3DS unit and the two units do not communicate
through streetpass, download play (tried with Steel Diver) or when
trying to transfer Miis. I can't even exchange friend codes. As a note
it communicates fine with a retail Wii and retail ds (or retail 3ds in
ds mode)

- Q:Does it connect to (production) nusd update servers for any updates?

A:It tries to connect to retail update servers (found this out by using
a proxy server) but it errors out.

- Q:Do you have any other software or hardware with it? ( firmware
  updates? rewritable CTR cards? etc. )

A:No i do not have any extra hardware or software except for a CTR card
which has a game demo on it (made for test units and dev units and will
not work on retail units)(I could take a picture if of it you like),
though I am not sure if you can write to it as it is the same size as a
retail cart not chunky like in some photos floating around. If I had the
hardware to dump it, I would as I am assuming it is encrypted with the
Debug RSA keys, you would be able to reverse engineer it.

- Q:Can you get more of them however/wherever you received yours from?

A:Not likely, it was hard to obtain. It is possible though.

- Q:Would you be willing to run pre-compiled apps imported through your
  dev menu on your test unit? \[and if so do you have an email to send
  them to\]

A:Yes I would love to (with in reason), they have to be in the .CIA
format to be installed from the SD card. If you do make any, send the
email with a description of what the application is suppose to do and
any instructions. And if you want I can send screenshots and feedback I
make about the applications you or others may send. You can send them to
"devguy@hotmail.com.au". BTW message me at my talk page so I know to
check for an email.

- Q:Would you be willing to lend or rent your unit out? I'm pretty sure
  you won't but it wouldn't hurt to ask.

A:No I don't really want to lend it out.

All the best--[3dsguy](User:3dsguy "wikilink") 18:19, 27 October 2011
(CEST)

Jl12, can you create any files or do you have access to any file formats
we haven't discovered
yet?--[Lazymarek9614](User:Lazymarek9614 "wikilink") 14:56, 20 November
2011 (CET)

jl12,how do you get .cia files?--Matyapiro31 15:54, 1 December 2011
(CET)