The Old3DS+New3DS 11.2.0-35 system update was released on October 24,
2016. This Old3DS update was released for the following regions: USA,
EUR, JPN, CHN, KOR, and TWN. This New3DS update was released for the
following regions: USA, EUR, JPN, CHN, KOR, and TWN.

Security flaws fixed: yes.

## Change-log

[Official](http://en-americas-support.nintendo.com/app/answers/detail/a_id/667/p/430/c/267)
USA change-log:

- Further improvements to overall system stability and other minor
  adjustments have been made to enhance the user experience

## System Titles

### NATIVE_FIRM

#### Process9

Actual code changed in Process9 .text. 2 functions were updated, and 1
new function was added which is called by the first function(see below).

The same function that was updated on [11.0.0-33](11.0.0-33 "wikilink")
(to check minimum versions when installing titles) was updated again:
the versions of the titles to install are now checked *twice*. This is
an attempt to fix a race condition.

#### New3DS [arm9loader](FIRM "wikilink")

The arm9loader wasn't changed.

#### ARM11-kernel

3 functions were updated.

The first one is the actual handler function for
svcWaitSynchronizationN.

After incrementing the counter with ldrex/strex, the last two functions
now load the counter with plain ldr and executes kernelpanic() when it's
zero.

#### Modules

The only updated FIRM module was loader.

##### loader

Only one function was updated, the same function involved with
codebin-physmem-randomization as the previous updates.

All added titles:

- JPN/USA/EUR/CHN/TWN Paper Mario: Sticker Star
- JPN/USA/EUR Steel Diver: Sub Wars

When handling an APPLICATION memregion process and the uniqueID doesn't
match any of the hard-coded ones, this then loads the
[exheader](NCCH/Extended_Header "wikilink") kernel release version. If
loaded successfully, the codebin-physmem-randomization is automatically
enabled if the version is \>=0x234([FIRM](FIRM "wikilink") 2.52 for
11.2.0-35). Hence, all applications built for \>=11.2.0-35 and have the
kernel release version field will have codebin-physmem-randomization
automatically enabled.

### friends-sysmodule

Like past updates the only change was updating fdpver(changed from 7 to
8).

### mint

Only updated for EUR. ExeFS .code and
"romfs:/message/EU_Spanish/mint.msbt.lz" were updated.

### eShop

The eShop system-application was only updated for EUR. ExeFS .code was
updated, no change for RomFS.

## See Also

System update report(s):

- [1](https://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=10-24-16_08-00-49&sys=ctr)
- [2](https://yls8.mtheall.com/ninupdates/reports.php?date=10-24-16_08-01-02&sys=ktr)

[Category:Firmware Versions](Category:Firmware_Versions "wikilink")